-So, Dad, guess what tomorrow is?
-Martin Luther King Junior's birthday.
-No. Well, it might be...
-It is.
Fine, but also, tomorrow is your one year
anniversary back in our lives!
I'm gonna make you
flying saucer shaped pancakes!
There's no need to do that, Beth.
Regular pancakes are fine.
[everybody screams]
[Jerry] Oh my god! What is happening?
[Rick and Morty main theme]
-Happy anniversary, dad!
-Oh, I get it.
Regular pancakes are
already shaped like flying saucers.
-I should be making you breakfast.
-You should be making a whole restaurant.
Nonsense. We couldn't be happier
to have you around.
I just wish I got to see more of you.
Rick Sanchez of Earth dimension C-137,
you are under arrest
for crimes against alternate Ricks
by the authority of the Trans-Dimensional
Council of Ricks.
-What the heck?
-Neutralize the Jerry.
Wait! No! I'll--
-Dad!
-[angry] Dad!
-Rick!
-Everybody relax.
If I know these a-holes,
and I am these a-holes,
they just wanna haul me
to their stupid clubhouse
and waste my time with questions.
Let's get it over with.
-Bring his [burps] Morty.
-Leave my [burps] Morty out of this!
You lost the right to have a say in this
when you refused to join the Council.
What about Jerry?
Will you at least unfreeze
my daughter's idiot?
...give you anything!
I have a rare antique coin collection!
Just don't hurt me!
OK, maybe not antique,
but it was a limited minting
with little R2D2s
instead of George Washingtons.
-Our son's been abducted!
-You hate me for buying those coins!
-Geez, Rick, what is this place?
-The Citadel of Ricks.
The secret headquarters
for the Council of Ricks.
Council of Ricks?
I've got a lot of enemies in the universe
that consider my genius a threat:
galactic terrorists,
a few subgalactic dictators,
almost the entire
intergalactic government...
Wherever you find people
with heads up their asses,
someone wants a piece of your grandpa.
And a lot of versions of me on different
timelines had the same problem.
So, a few thousand versions of me had
the ingenious idea of banding together.
Like a herd of cattle
or a school of fish
or those who answer questions
on Yahoo Answers.
-Hey, it's a cowboy version of me!
-Geez, you're easy to impress.
Most timelines have a Rick
and most Ricks have a Morty.
This place is a real who's who
of who's you and me.
Turn your boring old Morty
into a hot fashion statement
-with some Morty dazzlers!
-Hey, check this out!
-[Morty Doll] Show me the Morty!
-Dumb.
Sir, is your Morty insured? Every year,
hundreds of Mortys are injured--
Back off!
Not my cup of tea, this place.
I say the point of being a Rick
is being a Rick.
Save your anti-Rick speech
for the Council of Ricks, terror-Rick.
Hey, save your Rick Rules
for the [burps] Sheep Ricks, Rick Pig.
-[censor beep] me, pal.
-[censor beep] you! No! [censor beep] me!
[dramatic music]
Bring up the holograms.
[Rick councilor] Twenty seven Ricks,
brutally murdered in their own timelines.
An unprecedented Rickicidal epidemic.
What say you, Earth Rick C-137?
You think I did this?
Why am I the first you pull in
every time a Rick stubs his toe?
You [burps] have a history
of noncooperation with the Council.
Yeah, so does the scientist formerly known
as Rick. Why isn't he here in handcuffs?
Because he's dead, too!
[Ricks gasp]
Who else would you have us question?
You fit the profile.
Of all the Ricks in the central finite
curve, you're the malcontent, the rogue.
I'm the Rick. And so were the rest of you
before you formed this stupid alliance.
You wanted to be safe from the government
so you became a government.
That makes all of you less Rick than me.
[crowd murmurs]
Yeah, murmur it up, D-Bags.
If you'll excuse me, I've got pancakes
back home with syrup on top of them.
They're about to hit the point
of syrup-absorption
that turns them into a gross paste.
I hate to get all Andy Rooney about it,
but I think we all like
fluffy discs of cake with syrup on top.
And I think we also like to be accused
of crimes when there's evidence.
So, as they say in Canada: "Peace Ooot!"
Evidence? Good idea.
Scan his portal gun.
Aw, come on, don't look
at another man's portal gun history.
We all go to weird places.
Yes, but it appears you alone
have been going
to the exact timelines and locations
in which the murders occurred.
What? That's rick-diculous.
I'm obviously being set up!
Earth Rick C-137,
the Council of Ricks sentences you
to The Machine of Unspeakable Doom,
which swaps your conscious and unconscious
minds, rendering your fantasies pointless
while everything you've known
becomes impossible to grasp.
Also, every ten seconds,
it stabs your balls.
I've heard enough.
[Rick] Run, Morty!
Ah, ah, not you.
[Morty pants]
[Morty screams]
No!
[Rick officer screams]
[fart]
I'd like to order one large person
with extra people, please.
White people. No, no!
Black people. And Hispanic on half.
Yes, I'd like to order one large
sofa chair with extra chair please.
High chair. No, no!
Recliner. And wheelchair on half.
[doopidoos] Loopy doopy doo!
They could have gone
into any one of these.
Aw, son of a--!
-Aw, geez! We lost 'em!
-Aw man!
I'd like to order one large phone
with extra phones, please.
Cell phone. No, no!
Rotary. And pay phone on half.
That'll keep 'em [burps]
busy for a while.
Those guys were wrong, right?
You wouldn't kill yourself... yourselves.
Of course not. How could that profit me?
But someone out there is killing Ricks,
and the Council ain't going to stop
thinking it's me
until we find the real Rick killer.
Maybe we should go home and stockpile
weapons like in Doomsday Preppers.
Not really my style. Besides, your home
must be swarming with Ricks by now.
[machine interferences]
Listen, Jerry. If Rick calls,
this device is gonna trace his location.
You just gotta keep him
on the phone for 30 seconds.
-Who wants lemonade?
-Oh, yeah!
-Mm... Oh! Delicious!
-Beth, [burps] you're a treasure.
I have a Beth just like you
in my reality,
except she's not as brilliant
or attractive.
[flattered]
Aw! [burps] Thank you!
[all cheer]
Whoa! She did it!
[phone rings]
Hello?
-[Rick] Jerry, it's Rick.
-Rick! Hey! What's up?
Listen, the heat's on
and there's nowhere left to turn,
so Morty and I are gonna fly
my spaceship into a black hole.
-What? Rick! No! [yells] Morty!
-We got it! The call's coming from...
inside the house!
[Ricks laugh]
You dummy! Look at his face!
-I can't believe our daughter married you.
-Too easy!
The Ricks are probably gonna waste
some time messing with Jerry,
but as soon as they get bored,
they'll be on to us.
Phones a la clams and phonesghetti
with phone balls. Anything else?
-More phone sticks please.
-Right away, sir.
When I first saw
all those Ricks and Mortys, I thought:
"Gee, that kind of devalues our bond."
But our relationship
must be pretty special
to span over
all those different timelines.
It's got to be that way.
You're our camouflage.
Camouflage?
What are you talking about, Rick?
Ricks have a very distinctive
brainwave due to our genius.
Standing near someone with complimentary
brainwaves makes ours invisible.
See? When a Rick is with a Morty,
the genius waves
get cancelled out by the, uh...
[clears throat] Morty waves.
Because... our personalities
are so different?
Oh shit, dog!
My portal gun was hacked remotely.
Obviously by the real killer,
to frame me.
But I was able to trace the signal.
Come on, let's go!
We've tracked a pair of dangerous
criminals to this exact location.
They look exactly like us,
so to avoid confusion, I'm going
to mark us each with a red "X".
So if we both tell you to shoot the other
one because they're the evil one,
-you'll know who's lying.
-Check it out!
Damn it!
-Hey, you didn't pay your bill!
-[irritated] The red X! Red X!
It's a good thing that space outlet
had lab coats and your shirt in stock.
I heard you the first time,
you don't have to keep saying it.
This place is way off the grid.
This guy does not want to be found.
If he's a Rick, doesn't he just
have to stand by a Morty to hide?
Isn't that what we are,
human cloaking devices?
You're making a bigger deal out of this
than it is.
[high-pitched moans]
Oh my god, Rick, look!
There's a bunch of people strapped
all over that building!
Not people, Morty. Mortys!
[all Mortys cry out]
[Morty] Oh, my God!
Why would somebody do this?
It's horrible!
One Morty can hide you
from the bureaucrats,
but a whole matrix of Mortys
in agonizing pain
creates a pattern that can hide
even from other Ricks.
[Rick] I fiddled with a [burps] concept
like this once.
On paper, Morty! On paper! I wouldn't
do this. It's barbaric overkill.
I mean, you could accomplish the same
with like five Mortys and a jumper cable.
Which I also wouldn't do.
I'm just saying, it's bad craftsmanship.
-[Beth] Coffee time!
-Yoy yoy! That's what I like to hear!
[sighs]
-Hi, Jerry.
-Leave me alone, I'm working.
-Oh, you are? What do you do?
-I'm in between advertising jobs.
Advertising? Wow!
So, people need help figurin' out
what to buy and then you help them?
It's a little more complicated than that.
Well I mean, you do it and you seem
like a guy who really has it all together.
Dude, are you...
You're being a dick, right?
Oh, gosh, I hope not!
I wouldn't want to offend you in any way.
-You're really a Rick?
-[laughs] Of course I am.
Just as much as my Morty's a Morty!
He looks a lot like Eric Stoltz
from the movie Mask.
You know, the one with Cher in it.
That's right. He's from a reality where
everyone is Eric Stoltz Mask people.
He's Eric Stoltz Mask Morty.
They assigned him to me
because I never had any kids of my own.
but if I did, I'd love 'em if they were
as smart and as successful as you are.
Hey, get a load of this.
Jerry's hanging out with Doofus Rick.
This is perfect!
I'm not Doofus Rick!
I'm Rick J19-Zeta-7!
Is that the timeline where people
eat poop? You know this guy eats poop?
Hey, I don't eat poop!
You guys are always so mean to me!
[Ricks chuckle, Doofus Rick cries]
I guess it's only fair to tell you now,
I'm the worst Rick of them all.
According to who?
Other versions of you?
If I've learned one thing,
it's that before you get anywhere in life,
you gotta stop listening to yourself.
Wow, you really are wise, Jerry. I guess
that's why you work in advertising!
The fact that you feel that way
makes you the best Rick of them all.
You don't care about me at all! I'm no
different than that jacket you've got on!
Or your stupid portal gun!
I'm just a tool!
I'm just an object!
It's your choice to take it personally,
but now be quiet. The point of this
is to get the drop on the guy.
I'll tell you something.
I'm more than a human shield!
Yeah, you are. You're a perfect
impenetrable suit of human armor,
because you're as dumb as I am smart.
Which is why, when I say shut up,
it's really good advice!
[roars]
Great. Nice work, Morty.
[Crab spiders shriek]
[Rick sighs]
Oh, look at you, C-137.
You, aren't you a tough customer.
The slow clap? Really?
Kinda played out, dude.
Not in this dimension it isn't.
In fact, I invented it. Nobody else
has ever even done it here before.
-Well, la-di-da.
-Hey! That's mine.
[dramatic music]
I don't like the look of that Rick.
We gotta escape.
-I'm not gonna help you. You're a monster.
-Don't be rick-diculous, Morty.
-Stop saying that. It's stupid.
-Take his Morty away.
-[coldly] Come with me.
-Yeah, gladly. Geez, man. Ricks, huh?
You seem to know how this place works.
Is there any way to shut down that grid
and rescue all those Mortys outside?
It would be pointless. Mortys have
no chance of defeating a Rick.
In here.
[moaning]
[fart]
Ah, isn't it beautiful?
Yeah, it looks like pay day
at Neverland Ranch in here. Zing!
[Crab spider laughs]
-That guy got it.
-Rick, quiet. You're missing my symphony.
[Mortys cry out in pain]
Hey, I'll take it over
Mumford and Sons. Zip! [spider laughs]
-This guy is on it!
-He's not laughing at your dumb jokes.
That's just a random noise
it makes every ten seconds.
[spider laughs]
Aw!
Ya see, Rick, you're not as clever
as you think you are.
I wanted you to find me.
We're not so [burps] different...
Yeah, duh.
Ya see this right here, Rick?
I crunched the numbers.
I created a spectrum of all the Ricks,
I listed 'em out
from most evil to least evil.
Here's where I am, and look
at right here's where you are, Rick.
This guy right here: super weird.
So you want me to team up with you
to take down the Council of Ricks, right?
-That's where I'd be going.
-I think I'm doing pretty good on my own.
I'm simply gonna download the contents
of your brain and then kill you.
[dramatic music]
If we add a little more titanium nitrate
and just a tad of chlorified tartrate...
Oven-less brownies!
Mm!
It's incredible what a gifted mind can
accomplish when priorities are in order.
Well, come on,
I can't take all the credit Jerry.
It was your idea!
Come here, Jerry.
[both laugh]
Hey, come here.
I want to show you something.
Look, everybody makes fun of me,
but you're a genius scientist.
What do you think?
There's little R2D2s where
the George Washingtons should be!
I'm not going to tell you
that these will increase in value,
or even hold their current value.
The truth is,
you bought 'em because you like 'em.
They have value to you.
That's what matters.
-[sobs] How long are you staying?
-Until we find your Rick.
I found mine. I found mine.
-Help!
-There is no escape, my son.
We will find our peace
in the next world.
So, what, you're just gonna give up?
We're giving in.
To the power of the one true Morty!
-One day he will return.
-[in unison] Praise the one true Morty!
Alright, Mortys, listen up!
My name is Morty Smith,
from Earth Dimension C-137.
I know you're scared, me too, but
that's no reason to accept our fate!
We're Mortys! We're not defined
by our relationships to Rick.
Our destiny is our own.
This sounds like something
the one true Morty might say.
I'm sick of being a human shield.
I wanna be a gardener!
I want to write really crazy,
intense action novels!
-I'm more than just a hammer!
-He is the one true Morty!
-The one true Morty! [all cheer]
-Hey, keep it down.
[Mortys scream]
You've lived quite a life, Rick.
It's a shame you're not gonna be around
to see it through.
[sentimental music]
-You're crying? Over a Morty?
-No, I'm just allergic to dipshits.
Ugh, pathetic.
We both know that if there's any truth
in the universe,
it's that Ricks don't care about Mortys.
Do your worst, you little bastards!
Kill me! Do it! [yells] Do it!
Morty! Thank God!
Get me out of this. Come on!
You're lucky I'm not a Rick.
Point taken but this is no time for arcs.
[phone rings]
-Hello?
-What do me and O.J. not have in common?
Huh? Who is this?
I found the real killer, bitch!
Get over here!
Yo, ding dong,
we're done here, time to go.
Well, Jerry, [burps]
I guess this means good bye.
Does it have to?
You look just like Rick.
We could maybe, you know, get rid of him.
I'm not saying kill him necessarily,
I'm also not saying necessarily
not kill him, but--
Jerry, we both know it wouldn't work.
It's time to go back to our lives.
I love ya, Jerry. I love ya.
[sentimental music]
[sobs]
[Crab spiders shriek]
-What's gonna happen to all these Mortys?
-They'll go back to their families,
attend school regularly,
play video games, date girls...
Poor little Rickless bastards.
[Rick councilor] Earth Rick C-137,
the council apologizes
for its false accusation.
And, in the way of reparations
[burps] for our terrible mistake,
we would like to compensate you
with this voucher for a free,
replacement Morty
in the event
that your current Morty should--
Uh, guys? Not a good time.
Come on, Morty, let's hit it.
Is it time for arcs, yet, Rick?
I did a pretty good job back there
for a human cloaking device.
-Saved your ass.
-Don't break an arm jerking yourself off.
Man, I can't believe you!
That was a great opportunity
to show a little humanity,
to connect with me a little.
You want connection,
go be part of some stupid club
like all those dumb Ricks.
Maybe I don't connect
because I'm the Rickest Rick there is.
And, you know...
It would [burps] go without saying
that the Rickest Rick
would have the Mortiest Morty.
-It would go without saying, huh?
-Yeah, did you hear me say it?
Nah. The Mortiest Morty...
Just don't get too big
for your loafers, Buster Brown.
A cocky Morty can be
a real bad thing for everybody.
Oh yeah, how's that?
I'll explain when you're older.
-What a mess.
-Pride cometh before the fall.
-I guess he got what he deserved.
-What is that?
-Hand me the laser defibrillator.
-Hey, guys, can I help?
No. Go clean the toilets. Maybe
you'll make friends with some turds.
You make us ashamed to be ourselves.
My God!
I've seen this technology before.
This Rick was being controlled remotely.
Puppeteered by somebody else.
-This is the receiver.
-Yeah, but where's the transmitter?
[soft music]
Wubba dubba dub dub!
-What are you doing in my room, buddy?
-Nothing.
I was just...
checking the smoke detectors.
Alright. Okay. Get out.
[melancholic music]
[rain pattering]
What's that dipshit doing out there?
Are you friends with him?
You know he eats his own shit, right?
Oh my God, this is rich!
I've got like, ten Ricks
to call right now.